W-22436930-omni-governance-sections (#416)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/exp-work-with-governance-strategies.adoc

> = Work with Governance Strategies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Working with Governance Strategies
```

> Use governance strategies to apply rules and policies across agents, APIs, MCP servers, LLM proxies, and gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use governance strategies to apply rules and policies across agents, APIs, MCP servers, LLM proxies, and gateways. You can create, manage, and monitor strategies when your tenant includes *Governance* and your account has the required role. Use strategies to validate service compliance, automate runtime enforcement, and maintain visibility as your portfolio grows.
```

> You can create, manage, and monitor strategies when your tenant includes *Governance* and your account has the required role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Access Governance Strategy Workflows

Log in through your organization’s entry path and go to *Governance*.

> From there, create strategies and map them to approved services or scopes. You can also edit, enable, disable, reorder, or delete existing strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From *Governance*, create strategies and map them to approved services or scopes. You can also edit, enable, disable, reorder, or delete existing strategies.
```

Work with your governance lead when strategy changes affect production or compliance workflows.

> == How Strategies Fit Into Day to Day Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Governance Strategy Workflows
```

* Create strategies for compliance validation or runtime enforcement. See xref:exp-create-governance-strategies.adoc[].
* Manage strategies by updating scope, rules, status, and priority. See xref:exp-manage-governance-strategies.adoc[].
* Monitor token usage in *Governance* > *Cost Management*. See xref:exp-view-cost-and-token-usage.adoc[].
* Review conformance reporting for xref:exp-overview.adoc[supported catalog types].
* Apply policies to services from *Portfolio*. See xref:exp-view-service-details.adoc[].

> == Permissions, High Level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Required Permissions
```

> Creating strategies typically requires *Governance Administrator*. Users with *Governance Viewer* or *Governance Administrator* can view reports, depending on your role mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating strategies typically requires *Governance Administrator*. You can view reports with the Governance Viewer or Governance Administrator role, depending on how your organization maps roles.
```
